# Incident Report - 13 July 2015

## Reporting references

https://financialtimes.slack.com/archives/ft-origami/p1436780664000924

## Timeline summary

### 13th July 2015

* 10:44 Reported by Daniel Kuznetsov
* 10:51 Diagnosed by Andrew Betts
* 11:20 Fix created and deployment started
* 13:46 Confirmed fixed by Sam Giles

## Description

At 2015-07-08 18:09:42, in fixing a bug, Andrew Betts accidentally deployed code that restricted the Origami registry discovery process so that it would only process one module.  This was to enable a debugging process to iterate faster, but was never intended to be deployed to prod.

Immediately this would have had no effect, but if the registry consistently fails to rediscover a module for 3 days, it is removed from the database.  This would have started happening over the weekend, and affected `o-author-alerts`.  When the module was no longer in the registry, it would no longer be installable by origami build tools or bower.

The build service uses Origami Build Tools to install modules when their front end code bundles are requested from the browser.  The Build service's caching would have meant that the disappearance of a module from the registry would not immediately cause a problem, but the next request to origin that caused the rebuild of the bundle would result in a 404 response because the requested module was not available in the package list.

To fix the issue, the offending debug code was removed, the project was deployed to prod, and the discovery process was restarted.  The missing module reappeared in the package list.

## Effect

- Author alerts and other sharing related functionality stopped working on FT.com articles for a few hours

## Lessons Learnt

1. Changes made in haste still need to be reviewed, even if after the fact.  Andrew cannot side step this process just because he has a lot to do.
2. stale-when-error cache directives are no good if the response changes to a 404, which is not considered a server error.
